Troubleshooting: add an article about gray boxes in grids (#5131)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: concepts/80 Troubleshooting/05 DataGrid and TreeList Issues/10 Gray Boxes Appear After Data Loading/25 Eliminate Side Effects.md

Follow the steps below to eliminate possible side effects:

- Disable the [stateStoring](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/stateStoring/) property. Check if the issue still persists. If the issue disappears, it is possible that the saved state is corrupted. Clear the saved state, enable **stateStoring**, and check again.

> - FireFox and Safari browsers raise native scrolling events asynchronously. This behavior forces asynchronous row rendering in native scrolling mode even when [renderAsync](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/#renderAsync) is disabled. To avoid this side effect, disable the scrolling.[useNative](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/#useNative) property. Call the [defaultOptions(rule)](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Methods/#defaultOptionsrule) method to eliminate the issue for all DataGrid components in the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- FireFox and Safari browsers raise native scrolling events asynchronously. This behavior forces asynchronous row rendering in native scrolling mode even when [renderAsync](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/#renderAsync) is disabled. To avoid this side effect, disable the scrolling.[useNative](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/#useNative) property. Call the [defaultOptions(rule)](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Methods/#defaultOptionsrule) method to resolve the issue for all DataGrid components in the application.
```

- If you bind DataGrid or TreeList to one DataSource instance, reset the DataSource page index once you destroy the component. DataSource does not reset the index automatically. A new component bound to this DataSource may attempt to display the first data page while DataSource may contain only other data pages. The component displays gray boxes in such case.
Call the DataSource.[pageIndex(newIndex)](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#pageIndexnewIndex) method to reset the page index.

---

##### Angular

- If you use conditional rendering to display DataGrid or TreeList, and virtual scrolling is enabled, the following happens:

    - **on hide**    
    The scroll position is discarded.

    - **on show**    
    The scroll position is set to the first page.

>     If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on the page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because data source is loaded for the page 5 only.

Reviewer: Well, data source is countable... I believe this case is definite because we imply the [current] data source:

```suggestion
    If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on the page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because the data source is loaded for the page 5 only.
```

    In such cases, save the scroll position on hide and restore it on show:

        <!-- tab: app.component.ts -->
        export class AppComponent {
            // ...
            onContentVisibilityChange(visible) {
                if (!visible) {
                    this.gridScrollPosition = this.dataGrid.instance.getScrollable().scrollTop();
                } else if (this.gridScrollPosition > 0) {
                    this.dataGrid.instance.getScrollable().scrollTo({ top: this.gridScrollPosition }); 
            }
        }
    
    Alternatively, you can use CSS to hide the component. In this case, call the [updateDimensions](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Methods/#updateDimensions) method.

##### Vue

- If you use conditional rendering to display DataGrid or TreeList, and virtual scrolling is enabled, the following happens:

    - **on hide**    
    The scroll position is discarded.

    - **on show**    
    The scroll position is set to the first page.

>     If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on the page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because data source is loaded for the page 5 only.

Reviewer: Likewise.

```suggestion
    If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on the page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because the data source is loaded for the page 5 only.
```

>     If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on the page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because the data source is loaded for the page 5 only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because the data source is loaded for page 5 only.
```

                    onContentVisibilityChange(visible) {
                        if (!visible) {
                            this.gridScrollPosition = this.dataGrid.instance.getScrollable().scrollTop();
                        } else if (this.gridScrollPosition > 0) {
                            this.dataGrid.instance.getScrollable().scrollTo({ top: this.gridScrollPosition }); 
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        </script>
    
    Alternatively, you can use CSS to hide the component. In this case, call the [updateDimensions](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Methods/#updateDimensions) method.

##### React

- In certain cases, row placeholders appear due to redundant re-rendering. To learn more about such issues, refer to the following guide: [Optimize Performance](/Documentation/Guide/React_Components/Optimize_Performance).

- If you use conditional rendering to display DataGrid or TreeList, and virtual scrolling is enabled, the following happens:

    - **on hide**    
    The scroll position is discarded.

    - **on show**    
    The scroll position is set to the first page.

>     If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on the page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because data source is loaded for the page 5 only.

Reviewer: Likewise.

```suggestion
    If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on the page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because the data source is loaded for the page 5 only.
```

>     If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on the page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because the data source is loaded for the page 5 only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If DataGrid or TreeList was opened, for example, on page 5 before it was hidden, the gray boxes are displayed after the component is shown for the second time. This happens because the data source is loaded for page 5 only.
```

> Follow the steps below to eliminate the possible side effects:

Reviewer: Do we really need definiteness here? No, we do not. You say **the** possible side effects -- what do you mean by that? **Any** possible side effects or **all** possible side effects? The former case is indefinite; the latter case is definite. And if this case is definite, it's better to use "all" instead of a definite article because "all" answers all questions -- both spoken and unspoken.

```suggestion
Follow the steps below to eliminate possible side effects:
```

- Disable the [stateStoring](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/stateStoring/) property. Check if the issue still persists. If the issue disappears, it is possible that the saved state is corrupted. Clear the saved state, enable **stateStoring**, and check again.

> - The FireFox and Safari browsers raise native scrolling events asynchronously. This behavior forces asynchronous row rendering in native scrolling mode even when [renderAsync](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/#renderAsync) is disabled. To avoid this side effect, disable the scrolling.[useNative](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/#useNative) property. Use the [defaultOptions(rule)](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Methods/#defaultOptionsrule) method to eliminate the issue for all DataGrid components in the application.

Reviewer: > **The** FireFox and Safari browsers

We do not need this article according to the new guideline. Besides, come to have think of it -- it could have been multiple versions of FireFox and Safari browsers...

```suggestion
- FireFox and Safari browsers raise native scrolling events asynchronously. This behavior forces asynchronous row rendering in native scrolling mode even when [renderAsync](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/#renderAsync) is disabled. To avoid this side effect, disable the scrolling.[useNative](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/scrolling/#useNative) property. Call the [defaultOptions(rule)](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Methods/#defaultOptionsrule) method to eliminate the issue for all DataGrid components in the application.
```

> - If you bind DataGrid or TreeList to a single DataSource instance, reset the DataSource page index after you destroy the component. DataSource does not reset it automatically. A new component, bound to this DataSource, may attempt to display the first data page, while DataSource may contain only other data pages. The component displays gray boxes in such case.

Reviewer: > a single

A pleonasm. "A" already means "one". When you add "single" to it, you emphasize the aspect of singularity.

> A new component, bound to this DataSource, may attempt to display the first data page, while DataSource may contain only other data pages.

English follows a different set of punctuation rules... How much commas do you need here exactly? The right answer is "None".

> reset the DataSource page index after you destroy **the component**. DataSource does not reset **it** automatically.

Careful. "It" points at "the component", not "the DataSource page index".

```suggestion
- If you bind DataGrid or TreeList to one DataSource instance, reset the DataSource page index once you destroy the component. DataSource does not reset the index automatically. A new component bound to this DataSource may attempt to display the first data page while DataSource may contain only other data pages. The component displays gray boxes in such case.
```

> Use the DataSource.[pageIndex(newIndex)](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#pageIndexnewIndex) method to reset the page index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Call the DataSource.[pageIndex(newIndex)](/Documentation/ApiReference/Data_Layer/DataSource/Methods/#pageIndexnewIndex) method to reset the page index.
```

---

##### Angular

> - Conditional rendering does not reload data. If you use conditional rendering to display DataGrid or TreeList, the component's scrollable container resets its scroll position while hiding the component and does not restore it while showing the component. After the component has been hidden and shown, the scroll position is reset to the first DataSource page. Once the data of the first page is not loaded, the gray boxes are displayed. Save the scroll position on hiding the component and restore it on showing so that the component displays the loaded page.

Reviewer: This paragraph consists of barely understandable overcomplicated sentences. I cannot salvage it in its current state because I cannot understand what happens here.

The best possible solution is to rewrite the entire paragraph from scratch while keeping simplicity and clarity in mind.

Reviewer: This issue has been addressed.

        <!-- tab: app.component.ts -->
        export class AppComponent {
            // ...
            onContentVisibilityChange(visible) {
                if (!visible) {
                    this.gridScrollPosition = this.dataGrid.instance.getScrollable().scrollTop();
                } else if (this.gridScrollPosition > 0) {
                    this.dataGrid.instance.getScrollable().scrollTo({ top: this.gridScrollPosition }); 
            }
        }
    
    Alternatively, you can use CSS to hide the component. In this case, call the [updateDimensions](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Methods/#updateDimensions) method.

##### Vue

> - Conditional rendering does not reload data. If you use conditional rendering to display DataGrid or TreeList, the component's scrollable container resets its scroll position while hiding the component and does not restore it while showing the component. After the component has been hidden and shown, the scroll position is reset to the first DataSource page. Once the data of the first page is not loaded, the gray boxes are displayed. Save the scroll position on hiding the component and restore it on showing so that the component displays the loaded page.

Reviewer: The same pattern and issues as before. The verdict is the same -- rewrite from scratch. I understand nothing.

Reviewer: This issue has been addressed.

        <!-- tab: App.vue -->
        <script>
            export default {
                // ...
                methods: {
                    onContentVisibilityChange(visible) {
                        if (!visible) {
                            this.gridScrollPosition = this.dataGrid.instance.getScrollable().scrollTop();
                        } else if (this.gridScrollPosition > 0) {
                            this.dataGrid.instance.getScrollable().scrollTo({ top: this.gridScrollPosition }); 
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        </script>
    
    Alternatively, you can use CSS to hide the component. In this case, call the [updateDimensions](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Methods/#updateDimensions) method.

##### React

> - In some cases, row placeholders appear due to unnecessary rerendering. To learn more about such issues, refer to the following guide: [Optimize Performance](/Documentation/Guide/React_Components/Optimize_Performance).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In certain cases, row placeholders appear due to redundant re-rendering. To learn more about such issues, refer to the following guide: [Optimize Performance](/Documentation/Guide/React_Components/Optimize_Performance).
```

> - Conditional rendering does not reload data. If you use conditional rendering to display DataGrid or TreeList, the component's scrollable container resets its scroll position while hiding the component and does not restore it while showing the component. After the component has been hidden and shown, the scroll position is reset to the first DataSource page. Once the data of the first page is not loaded, the gray boxes are displayed. Save the scroll position on hiding the component and restore it on showing so that the component displays the loaded page.

Reviewer: Again, a very complicated and confused paragraph. I do not understand anything. Please rewrite.

Reviewer: This issue has been addressed.
